e
e e
spe
e
e e
let's start first of all sorry for for
the delay uh Mr larini was um in another
meeting and I'd like to thank you all
very much for being here for this press
conference uh of the unra commissioner
General Mr Philip Le zini doesn't need
any introduction of course but I'd like
to thank you very much for being here to
listen to his update on the situation in
the occupied Palestinian territory in
Gaza and I'll give him the floor
immediately for his initial remarks and
then we will take a few questions and I
underline the few thank you Mr lini
commissioner
General okay good um good morning good
afternoon and first of all yes apologize
for the yes
okay so first of all uh apologize for
the delay I had a longer member State
briefing than uh expected this morning
what I suggest to do now is maybe just
to share one or two latest development
on the ground uh but also to share with
you some of the messages I have shared
with the member states and also to
comment on the review the Kine Kon
report and maybe also a little update on
the o us
report um when when it comes to the
situation on the ground um I mean
basically our colleagues are telling us
that there is a extraordinary deep
anxiety prevailing right now in Gaza
because the question uh everybody ask is
whether yes or not there will be a
military offensive and the likelihood of
a military offensive
will all depends uh whether or not a
cire deal will be reached uh this week
um just to let you know that people have
not yet been asked to evacuate from Rafa
but there is a sense that if there is no
deal this week that this can happen at
any time my colleague on the ground are
also uh describing uh basically a a
constant I would say a constant state of
trauma among the people and basically
they came with a new acronym we are not
talking anymore about uh
PTSD but we are more talking about the
ctsd which would mean constant traumatic
stress disorder prevailing in the Gaza
Strip and obviously this is not too
surprising uh this morning I commented
also on the latest development in the
north where we are engaged in a race
against the clock to reverse in fact the
spreading hunger and the looming famine
especially in the northern part the good
news is that my colleagues have reported
that there is more food available in the
market so increased Ava
availability but it is still does not
mean that the food is accessible just
because there is absolutely no cash
circulating in the northern part of the
Gaza Strip we believe that much more
needs to be done it is true that there
have been more Supply entering during
the month of April but this is still far
from enough to reserve or to to reverse
the negative Trend we have seen I have
also mentioned this morning when I met
the uh member states um the uh issue
about the blame game you might have
heard between the Israeli uh Authority
mainly the Kat and the United Nation on
one hand Israel saying what we are
providing all the necessary food the
problem is is on the side of the United
Nation let me just give you few facts
regarding this first this is not true
this is not our reading uh look at um
starting with un whenever we ask for a
convoy going from the south to to the
north our convoys are systematically
denied so we still have no access
whenever a permission is given to
deliver anywhere else in the strep the
process is
always complicated and very uh
cumbersome uh when when it comes to
enter into Gaza we have this system of
offloading downloading offloading
downloading the trucks which makes
things extraordinary uh difficult also
um we have operating hours of the
crossing which vary from one day to
another one with limited number of hours
where we can operate and most of the
time the many times a week we we have
also the crossing being closed because
they just dumping uh D release to theis
or dumping sometimes bodies who have
been T who have been taken to Israel and
back to the Gaza street now talking
about um the um the detes I have also
briefed the member State about the
report we have issued about a week ago
um it was the first time that in fact un
has released such a report in my meeting
this morning I have reminded that of
course hostages are still in captivity
with the Hamas and that both the
Secretary General myself but other un
officer keep asking for the
unconditional and immediate release of
the hostages but I have also shared this
morning our deep concern regarding the
gazin detained by the Israeli Security
Forces um the report you have seen uh
recently has been based on the number of
testimonies collected by the agency Why
by the agency because we are at the
Crossing we are at Kem Shalom because we
are mining the main logistical Hub at
the entry of Gaza and these people
basically have been released at this
place and u according to the testim uh
testimonies that we have collected um
people have told us that they are
routinely red when they were arrested
they were routinely rounded up stripped
to the underwear and loaded into trucks
blindfolded and bonded most of the time
once arrested these detes remain in
communic and they are subjected to
shocking inum treatment among the IM
inum treatment they have described to us
water boing water boarding severe
victims attacked by dogs being forced to
hold stress position for hours sometimes
12 hours 24 hours and being forced to
wear diaper instead of accessing uh the
toilet and among the detainers who have
been relieved we had also a number of un
staff and they have also reported to us
that while on interrog ation they were
asked a lot of question about their work
with Ona and basically also being
pressured to state that the agency is
politically Affiliated in the Gaza Strip
this morning I have also highlighted the
fact that U as you know the agency is
under a lot of strain they are call for
the agency to be uh
dismantled uh but the agency also has
been uh targeted over the last six uh
seven months um in in in in Gaza uh
where both uh our staff but also our
premises as well as our operation I just
reminded that since the beginning of the
war we have
182 staff member now who have been
killed more than 160 premises which have
been uh damaged uh all totally destroyed
and most of these premises were
Sheltering a displaced people and more
than 400 people have been killed in
these premises uh we have also seen that
whenever we vacated premises mainly in
the north of the Gaza strep uh they have
been then used for military uh
purposes uh we have uh also heard about
the ation regarding tunnel uh underneath
some of our premises and basically I was
calling the member state to make sure
that at the end of the war once we have
a ceas fa that we have also the ne that
we put in place an investig independent
investigation uh to look into this
blatant disregard of the United Nation
in order to avoid that this becomes also
in the future uh the new standard I also
briefed uh this morning about where we
stand on the oios report but in fact we
have been briefed by Stefan durit I
think on on on Friday just to reiterate
what he has said we started with 12
allegation conveyed already to me then I
submitted after that to O us later on
oios received seven additional
allegation five plus five in March and
two in April out of the 19 one person
has been completely cleared and is now
reinstated and four people out of the 19
uh the investigation is now on hold
because there is no further or
additional information available for the
time being
when it comes to the Kine Colona report
you had access already a week ago you
have seen that she has stressed the fact
that the agency has important and robust
uh uh uh system and mechanism to deal
with neutrality Brides uh that it is in
fact above the average uh in uh the
region but uh but obviously we can do
more and there there is a number of
recommendation that 50 yes uh see the
body language right now that the
Secretary General and myself are
committed now to implement you have seen
the E category she has looked into it we
have published last week already four
pages informing the member states about
our intend and how we will follow up on
this recommendation and I hope that by
miday we will have a first preliminary
action plan to be uh to be shared now we
will have four category of
recommendation one are the
recommendation for which the agency has
already taken step and we have just to
to align them with the recommendation of
the reporter we have additional
recommendation which we consider a Quick
Fix and can be implemented then we have
recommendation which require additional
resource within the organization and
lastly we will have recommendation also
which will require the support of member
states or host country we are committed
to report back on a regularly on a
regular basis on where we stand with
this uh
recommendation um maybe just a comment
on the funding of the situation um in
January you remember that once the
allegation have been made public up to
16 countries suspended the contribution
to the agency the good news is that to
as of today most of the agent uh donor
countries have resumed their
contribution to the agency we just have
a handful of a country who still need to
take a decision we know that the main
contributor being the US has indicated
that they will not be able to support
the agency before March
25 uh but meanwhile in all member State
briefing they are recommending other
countries to support un and we still
wait otherwise the decision of other
countries including the one we are uh
just just now um the good news also on
the funding is that uh we have new
donors uh or countries who before never
contributed uh to the agency and I want
also to flag uh the success in private
fundraising uh in six months the agency
has uh basically mobilized more
than15 million us in private fundraising
which is an indication also of the
extraordinary Grassroots solidarity
Express towards uh Palestinian and also
to the agency let me just um conclude
with one or two comment the first one
and I was at the security Council 10
days ago and uh basically I reminded the
member state that all the call for the
agency to be dismantled not only in Gaza
but also in East Jerusalem and in the
West Bank have nothing to do with
neutrality neutrality issues can be
addressed uh but it is all but the
objective behind it is clearly to strip
the Palestinian from the refugee status
and uh basically we keep hearing uh unoa
is part of the problem because it
perpetuates the refugee status it's as
if you say that an human response in a
conflict perpetuates the conflict what
perpetuates the conflict is the absence
of a political uh solution so I told
member states that uh um that more than
ever the lasting temporary agency that
we have been over the last 75 years if
really today there is a genuine
commitment to reactivate and bring back
the two-state solution on the table the
agency can retrieve its temporary Nature
by supporting the transition leading to
the two-state solution the transition
leading to a day
after I think uh I I will maybe stop
here and uh take question and there are
many
commissioner General larini and I will
start with Y who is our correspondent of
and also the president the new president
Philip of the association of journalists
here in Geneva at the
pal for
um
support
for for
okay so I'll uh I'll now go to Benjamin
L uh who is our correspondent of the
French speaking Swiss Radio I think you
have a news for us Ben
AC for
on
[Music]
um for
mer continue um uh pardon um
Stan I have a
list I've seen all your
[Music]
hands for
isia
[Music]
AG
the
thank you very much Christian I had
noted your hand is it's okay now okay so
let's go to Jeremy L another French
speaker
[Music]
oos
IND
indid
person um for
ter
thank you very much question an
important one
um
for cont
[Music]
mer let's switch back to English Jimmy
Kon Associated
Press thank you uh Mr larini for coming
to see us um just wanted to follow up on
that a little bit um just to be clear so
there's not any change in your timetable
for the continued uh operations of unra
through June even though you've gotten
this 115 more than $15 million that
hasn't changed your your timeline um for
for operations just wanted to be clear
on that um the second question just has
to do with um you mentioned that one
person had been reinstated um that means
back to work I mean just could you
clarify that and is it your
understanding that the donors who have
suspended their funding are waiting for
the release of the final OS oi OS report
to actually resume I mean is that the
condition that they've told you thank
you yes thank you uh we we we have two
main uh stream within the organization
we have the core budget which basically
covers the salaries of the 30,000 staff
of the organization which most of the
time I describe as our backbone
basically um and when I talk about the
shortfall uh of the main contribut
contributor for of $120 $180 million
being the US I talk about this part of
the budget the rest is related to the
emergency appeal either the emergency
appeal uh for the opt now which includes
obviously Gaza for which we have called
now 1.2 billion US do and also the
appeal on the Syria crisis which covers
also the humanit assistance in Lebanon
and in georia Jord so the $120 million
that we have raised with the private
sector is primally uh money for the Gaza
appeal so it's not money uh mobilized
for the core budget of the organization
now yes I'm confident in uh until the
end of June because I know that June is
now completely bridged uh I have
information about July it's not
completely bridged uh if you ask are you
confident or not uh I would say in
during the last four years I have rarely
had more visibility than two or three
months um I'm used now to to to to have
to deal with a extraordinary unsettling
uh Financial uh environment and
situation so based on recent experience
based on the fact that most of the donor
now have come back and most of the donor
clearly indicated that the review and
the Kine Colona report will be the basis
for their uh decision so not not AOS
that I'm aware of thank you very much uh
I'll go to can I just make a comment
because it's important the Kine Colona
report is all about the system and
policies and the agency oios it's about
individual Behavior
and the individual Behavior does not
mean that there is a systemic issue so
Katherine Kona was on the systemic o on
the
individual okay but just to follow up on
that I mean the reason that the the
funding was suspended was principally in
relation to these individual
cases you are right but the follow-up
concern after that was is there a
systemic flow or not
thank you very much let's go now to
imoen folks our correspondent of BBC
imoen hi thanks for taking my question
um this is actually about this uh
Floating Bridge that the um Americans
are uh are building into uh into Gaza to
bring Aid in uh Jamie McGoldrick the
outgoing humanitarian coordinator he
expressed some concerns about how that
would work work I just wonder how you
you assess
it yes there have been number of concern
expressed by UN agency about the m m
operandi once the pier uh is in place
and how uh the assistance will arrive
will be maned will be handled uh at the
pier uh we had last week the head of the
security who came also uh to make an
assessment we have submitted number of
recommendation in order to address our
concern and my understanding is that
this our ongoing uh discussion and once
our concern are addressed I mean this
will be an an additional uh entry point
uh as you know we keep also saying that
the maritime Corridor or airdropping uh
cannot and should not be alternative to
the main entry into Gaza being the land
Crossing um indeed Christian ER from the
German news agency had a question thank
you Mr lazarini I'm getting lost in the
figures that are floating around now can
you tell us how many countries have
still suspended what sum of money what
sum what did you expect to get in
January that has been suspended and has
not resumed so how much is still lacking
out of a total of what thank
you the countries who I mean first the
United States United State has clearly
indicated that they will keep the freeze
the suspension until March
2025 the UK because of Congress
prohibition the UK has not yet taken a
decision Austria has has not yet taken a
decision so this and we just heard uh
the what's going on here in Switzerland
so this are the three countries uh who
are still suspending all the other
countries have resumed now we hear that
Italy has also suspended but Italy has
not yet contributed to the agency or
since the new government is in place so
since 2023 they have not contributed to
the
agency the
figures I don't know what the UK
intended to uh contribute uh you know
they have been uh they were top donor
few years ago they have significantly
decreased when they have politically
taken the decision to decrease their
oversight uh budget from 0.7 to 0.5 of
the GDP I don't know exactly what the
intend was for this year so I have to
look back to what they contributed in
2023 to have an estimate but for the us
we are talking
about1 180 million Us
doll can we take a couple of more
question okay sorry uh I was just
checking because I think at certain
point we will have to stop but I'll I'll
give the floor to Dina bab Dina can you
introduce yourself
please thank you alisander I'm Dina abis
I'm the representative of different
Arabic media my question is about the um
detainees the Palestinian detainees you
said that they are facing extreme
violence um what is the number of those
detainees do you have any uh figures and
uh did you um document in your reports
any killing of detainees and any sexual
violence and rape thank you
thank you uh what what we have reported
basically it's what I have shared with
you uh before so the short answer is uh
no no other uh uh um Mis mistreatment uh
or torture than the one I have described
um how many detes I don't know uh I can
tell you how many have been released
through the km Shalom uh Crossing and
there have been more than thousand uh
over the last few
months thank you very much I'm now a
little bit um she was waiting she's been
waiting for a long time Louisa Balin
from the global Geneva
magazine we can't hear you maybe you oh
now it works now it's working thank you
U mer
soci isan Mery
um
thank you very much I'll take a last
question from the correspondent of Yumi
shimun thank you very much my name is
sat I work for
Yim um I just want to follow up the the
peer that the US military is currently
constructing um in terms of Aid
distribution will unwa be involved in
this and then also secondly you said
that the Israeli authorities have denied
Ura to deliver Hood Aid to the north so
um the last time urua was able to
deliver the hood Aid was January 23rd so
since then you were denied and and then
also about um when was the last time you
are allowed to enter Gaza because I saw
the news that you are also denied to
enter the Gaza thank
you thank you I I plan to go to Gaza
Sunday so I hope I will be allowed to go
together but I don't have a final answer
for the time being uh when it comes to
the pier basically we have a uh you know
we we we are dividing responsibility
within the UN system uh un is Manning
the
logistic at K Shalom and in Rafa and uh
we have uh the the logistic cluster
which is supported by wfp which will be
Manning the entry point in at eret when
eret becomes operational and also at the
pier on behalf of the humanarian system
um it is true that we did not have any
convoys of un direct convoys from the
south to the north having said that uh
when we operate in the north uh we are
we have our staff helping for the
distribution uh to the people in need
and uh we have also the necessary
premises where the assistance can be
brought
in so
um yeah I I have
to for the person who asked um the how
much funding is still suspended to the
agency the estimated when we say
suspended it's money we were aware which
was committed and which remain suspended
for the agency the total amount is
267 million uh Us doll uh the bulk of it
comes from the
US and I'm trying to
read trying to answer your
questions
and come back okay just
emph yeah yeah I was just reminded that
uh when it comes to supply into Gaza the
most efficient way and the quickest
Remains the land access and this is also
the safest way to bring assistance into
Gaza
Strip thank you very much uh
commissioner general larini for this uh
updates today it was really important to
hear you especially after the decision
of the Swiss authorities uh thanks to
all for having followed this press
conference and please come back soon uh
to update us and good luck thank you
very much thank you thank you
bonati recording stopped